It’s that time of the year again. Energy is low and motivation is lagging. Here’s how you can beat the  end of year slump. Between dealing with the pressure of an ongoing pandemic and working from home, the end of year exhaustion feels more intense. It may feel like we  are all swimming through a pool of glue.  The good news is that you are not alone and there are things you can do to ensure that you end this year on a strong note. Siphokazi Mbili, life and executive coach, has some tips on how you can overcome the struggle of getting things done when feeling overwhelmed. Prioritize When you have too much on your plate you may feel overwhelmed. This can lead to  performance paralysis. Mbili says getting organised  will give you a clear and realistic picture of what can achieve. “Sometimes we try and push everything at once,” she says. Making a list of the most important things  will give you a clear picture of what needs to be done. Don’t procrastinate “A lack of motivation is a common trait in those suffering from of the end of your slump because they don’t have a clear picture,” Mbili explains. Instead of making things better for yourself, procrastination often leads to more stress. Things just keep piling up around you. Once you have prioritized the things you need to do, getting on with the work will lead to less stress in the long run. Procrastination only offers temporary relief from anxiety. Get enough rest It’s common knowledge that the body needs a certain amount of sleep and downtime to function at it’s peak. While there is some debate about the exact amount of time needed, it is important to ensure that you are giving your body and your brain a chance to recover. Not giving yourself recovery time means you will only get slower and less efficient at the tasks you need to accomplish.  It’s that time of the year again. Energy is low and motivation is lagging. Here… American fashion designer Rachel Zoe says style is a way of expressing who you are… Recently, many of us have found ourselves largely confined to our homes, and television viewing… 