The job market has become increasingly competitive. Here is how you can get yourself
noticed in the virtual space. It’s obvious by the number of people battling to make ends meet that the South African job market
is depressed. According to recent employment statistics released by statistics agency Stats
SA, South Africa’s unemployment rate hit a staggering 34.4 percent in the second quarter of 2021.
Competition for jobs has intensified. Having the right qualifications might not be enough to secure you your dream job. Employers are
looking for more than a diploma or degree from candidates and, with interviews taking place online,
there are a few ways to make sure you stand out from the competition. Employers make the decision to hire a candidate within the first few minutes. This is especially true
for face-to-face encounters; however, things get a trickier when it comes to virtual interactions.
After more than a year of virtual meetings, many people are suffering from online fatigue.  Including the usual
nerves of being interviewed and things get even more challenging. However, don’t let this be the
reason you don’t snag that job. Make sure that your equipment is working Make sure that you are familiar with the apps you will be using during the interview. Before
lockdown. Skype was the major video conferencing platform, however these days more platforms
have mushroomed to meet the demands of people working from home. The main platforms are
Zoom, Google Meet, and Teams. Knowing the ins and outs of each platform will make you more
confident to reply and engage with the interviewer. Check Your Background
Many of us are familiar with the video of a lawyer showing up to an online trial as a cat. While this
can provide some levity, ensuring that your space is clutter free and free of distractions will keep the
focus on you and what you have to offer. It also shows a level of professionalism which is vital for
landing the job. Ensure that you are in a quiet space with no loud noses which can cause distractions
and sabotage your goals of making a great impression. Body Language
Home is a more formal space where most people relax and rejuvenate. However, assuming an overly
relaxed posture during an online interview is not encouraged. According to Landed “body language is
a key component to communicating and expressing yourself.” Treat the interaction as though it
were a real life interaction and you are sure to make a lasting impression. We all need to start taking control of our finances by budgeting, investing and building… A one-on-one conversation with media entrepreneur and Mar/Apr cover icon, Savita Mbuli What better way to celebrate the festive season than with scrumptious delights that are easy… 