New year’s resolutions are notoriously difficult to stick to. Here is how you can increase your chances of you sticking to them. It’s almost the end of the year, and while many of us are focused on getting to the end of the year, starting to think about what we want to achieve this year can help you stick to your resolutions. They say the only constant thing is change; however, changing your behaviour can be difficult. Human beings are creatures of habit. This can seem like a personal failing; however, it is scientifically proven that our brains prefer to continue doing what is familiar. “We are hardwired to resist change. Part of the brain—the amygdala—interprets change as a threat and releases the hormones for fear, fight, or flight. Your body is protecting you from change,” writes Consulting Manager Chris Pennington. There is some good news. You can train your brain to welcome change.  Get comfortable with discomfort The first step in creating lasting change is making yourself comfortable with being uncomfortable. This way, your brain won’t freak out when you want to make major changes to your life. Initially, this may feel very uncomfortable. However, the results are worth it. According to Very Well Mind, it’s important to challenge yourself to experience growth.  “Do something that you’re uncomfortable doing, even if it doesn’t result in immediate positive feedback or reward. Having the experience of “doing” builds confidence and helps build skills to deal with future problems that may arise outside your comfort zone.” Find your reason Change for change’s sake makes it easy to give up halfway. Having a reason to make a change will help you stay on track with your goals. This will serve as a reminder whenever you feel like giving up. The secret is personalizing the goal so that it is aligned with your values. Hold yourself accountable Most of us make a goal and forget about it. That is until we remember and feel guilty for not sticking to it. By doing an audit on how far you have come, you will be invigorated to continue. If you are not happy with your progress, a review will give you the chance to pivot.  You can choose to do a monthly, or quarterly review of your goals. We are proud to introduce to you our new offering. Destiny has been a business… It’s that time of the year again. Energy is low and motivation is lagging. Here's… Separated or divorced parents who want to move their children between them during the lockdown,… 